README.md, before:

# icse-react-assets

## Documentation

Documentation for all components is available on storybook: http://ibm.github.io/icse-react-assets

## Getting Started

1. `git clone https://github.ibm.com/icse/icse-react-assets.git && cd icse-react-assets`
2. `npm run i-all`
3. Test a build with `npm update && npm run build`
4. Run `npm run dev` to run the playground environment to test any components

## Contribution Guidelines

1. Create a new branch for your component
2. Add the component within `./src/components`
3. Export the component in `index.js` as

```js
export { default as UnderConstruction } from "./components/UnderConstruction";
```

4. Run `npm update && npm run build` to build the library
5. Test your component in the playground. Navigate to `/playground/src/App.js` and render your component
6. Run `npm run i-all` to npm install in both apps and make sure the library is updated within playground.
7. Run `npm run dev` to ensure your component renders & functions properly in the playground environment
8. Create a PR

## Documenting Components in Storybook

Storybook is a documentation tool for component libraries that allows us to more thoroughly document and test components. A live version of our storybook is available here: http://ibm.github.io/icse-react-assets
After migrating a component, please document your component in `/storybook/src/stories/<component name>.stories.js`. You can follow `IcseTextInput.stories.js` as an example.

To get started with storybook, you will first need to install it and its dependencies:

```bash
cd storybook
npm i
```

You may encounter an error with @mdx-js, if you do, run this command as well:

```bash
npm i @mdx-js/react@^1.6.22 -D --legacy-peer-deps
```

Test that storybook runs correctly:

```bash
cd ..
npm run storybook
```

This stories file can be broken down into a few distinct parts:

1.  Component Information/Documentation

You will first want to export a default object with a few nested objects within it. This object describes what the component you are writing documentation for is, where it should be located on the sidebar, any initial values, and a main description for the doc.

```js
export default {
  component: IcseTextInput, // component name
  title: "Components/Inputs/IcseTextInput", // in tabs under components > inputs > IcseTextInput > Default (bound story is default)
  args: {
    // this is an object of props and their default values in the component
  },
  argTypes: {
    disabled: { // name of the prop
      description: "A boolean value for if the TextInput is disabled", // description of the prop from readme
      type: { required: true }, // required prop or not
      table: { defaultValue: { summary: "false" } }, // default value
      control: "boolean", // what type of value we can set
    },
    ...
  },
  parameters: {
    docs: {
      description: {
        component:
          "IcseTextInput is a text input component that allows the user to input text into a field and the developer to easily validate it.", // put the component description from readme here
      },
    },
  },
};
```

2. Stories

Next, create your stories. This should be pretty similar to any examples for the component previously created, the only difference being passing in the args object instead of nothing. You can create any functions you need to pass within this component and then pass them to the component as props, just as done in the previous example files.

```js
const IcseTextInputStory = ({ ...args }) => {
  const [value, setValue] = useState("");
  const invalidCallback = function () {
    return value === "";
  };
  return (
    <IcseTextInput
      {...args}
      value={value}
      onChange={(event) => setValue(event.target.value)}
      invalidCallback={invalidCallback}
    />
  );
};
```

3. Binding your story

Lastly, bind your story and export it. In this example, we are using `Default` as there is only one type of `IcseTextInput`. However, for components that have multiple "types," you may create multiple stories and bind each story.

```js
export const Default = IcseTextInputStory.bind({});
```

After this file is created, you can run the storybook and ensure everything works properly.

```bash
npm run storybook
```

Only after your PR is approved and before it is merged, please run the following commands to deploy to github pages.

```bash
npm run predeploy
npm run deploy-storybook
```

Commit message:

Craig 238: Updates for react testing (#77)
* initial changes, need versioning updates

* update deps

---------

Co-authored-by: Isaac Eichelberger <Isaac.Eichelberger@ibm.com>

README.md, after:

# icse-react-assets

## Documentation

Documentation for all components is available on storybook: http://ibm.github.io/icse-react-assets

## Getting Started

1. `git clone https://github.ibm.com/icse/icse-react-assets.git && cd icse-react-assets`
2. `npm run i-all`
3. Test a build with `npm update && npm run build`
4. Run `npm run dev` to run the playground environment to test any components

## Building the Library Locally for Testing
To use the library within an application to test your changes, navigate to the base directory where your application is cloned:
```
cd icse-react-assets
```

Build the repo. Make sure you have bumped the package version before doing this.
```
npm run build
```

Package the library, and save it to a location of your choosing. For this example, the location is `~`.
```
npm pack --pack-destination ~
```

Finally, go to your application, and change the entry for `icse-react-assets` in your package.json to this:
```
    "icse-react-assets": "file:<your file destination>/icse-react-assets-<package-version>.tgz",

```

## Contribution Guidelines

1. Create a new branch for your component
2. Add the component within `./src/components`
3. Export the component in `index.js` as

```js
export { default as UnderConstruction } from "./components/UnderConstruction";
```

4. Run `npm update && npm run build` to build the library
5. Test your component in the playground. Navigate to `/playground/src/App.js` and render your component
6. Run `npm run i-all` to npm install in both apps and make sure the library is updated within playground.
7. Run `npm run dev` to ensure your component renders & functions properly in the playground environment
8. Create a PR

## Documenting Components in Storybook

Storybook is a documentation tool for component libraries that allows us to more thoroughly document and test components. A live version of our storybook is available here: http://ibm.github.io/icse-react-assets
After migrating a component, please document your component in `/storybook/src/stories/<component name>.stories.js`. You can follow `IcseTextInput.stories.js` as an example.

To get started with storybook, you will first need to install it and its dependencies:

```bash
cd storybook
npm i
```

You may encounter an error with @mdx-js, if you do, run this command as well:

```bash
npm i @mdx-js/react@^1.6.22 -D --legacy-peer-deps
```

Test that storybook runs correctly:

```bash
cd ..
npm run storybook
```

This stories file can be broken down into a few distinct parts:

1.  Component Information/Documentation

You will first want to export a default object with a few nested objects within it. This object describes what the component you are writing documentation for is, where it should be located on the sidebar, any initial values, and a main description for the doc.

```js
export default {
  component: IcseTextInput, // component name
  title: "Components/Inputs/IcseTextInput", // in tabs under components > inputs > IcseTextInput > Default (bound story is default)
  args: {
    // this is an object of props and their default values in the component
  },
  argTypes: {
    disabled: { // name of the prop
      description: "A boolean value for if the TextInput is disabled", // description of the prop from readme
      type: { required: true }, // required prop or not
      table: { defaultValue: { summary: "false" } }, // default value
      control: "boolean", // what type of value we can set
    },
    ...
  },
  parameters: {
    docs: {
      description: {
        component:
          "IcseTextInput is a text input component that allows the user to input text into a field and the developer to easily validate it.", // put the component description from readme here
      },
    },
  },
};
```

2. Stories

Next, create your stories. This should be pretty similar to any examples for the component previously created, the only difference being passing in the args object instead of nothing. You can create any functions you need to pass within this component and then pass them to the component as props, just as done in the previous example files.

```js
const IcseTextInputStory = ({ ...args }) => {
  const [value, setValue] = useState("");
  const invalidCallback = function () {
    return value === "";
  };
  return (
    <IcseTextInput
      {...args}
      value={value}
      onChange={(event) => setValue(event.target.value)}
      invalidCallback={invalidCallback}
    />
  );
};
```

3. Binding your story

Lastly, bind your story and export it. In this example, we are using `Default` as there is only one type of `IcseTextInput`. However, for components that have multiple "types," you may create multiple stories and bind each story.

```js
export const Default = IcseTextInputStory.bind({});
```

After this file is created, you can run the storybook and ensure everything works properly.

```bash
npm run storybook
```

Only after your PR is approved and before it is merged, please run the following commands to deploy to github pages.

```bash
npm run predeploy
npm run deploy-storybook
```
